so in the previous video we looked at
the git status command i'm sure you
probably agree at this point that it was
really quite helpful in providing us
information on what was going on with
particular files now you probably saw
that one point there's instructions
relating to undoing changes in the
staging area and the working directory so
let's actually go through and see this
for ourselves by actually carrying out
some changes and then reverting or
removing or backing out of those
changes so we're going to start a
terminal the bash shell going to go
to my repository standard repository
we've been using i'm going to go into
the converted git repository that was
if you recall was the one that was the java
project from my java course that we
downloaded for the purposes of testing and
let's actually go ahead and modify files
so what I want to do is have a look at this
sorted collections .iml that
obviously only an example file if you're
using another test project obviously
edit any file from from that project
in my case gonna do....
....this is
actually the output or the file that's
is maintained by IntelliJ when you're
using that for a java ide so basically
just going to put something in the file
to indicate that its change so
going to come down here and press enter
just to add an extra line just
basically want to do something anything
so that the file is actually different to
what it was prior to you editing it and
save the change
bearing in mind that we've already added
this project to git so as far as git is
concerned this is a file that has been
monitoring is being monitored or
tracked by git
notice how the command prompts changed
to a star now and if we type...you can
see that sorted collections has
now been modified and currently there's
no changes added to commit you need to
use the git add command or git commit
command with the dash a but also up here
notice that git you can use the git
checkout to discard changes in the
working directory so lets actually see
how that works
now this check out command is a versatile
command which can be used for many
things
one thing that you can use it for is
carrying out what we wanting
to do now which is to undo the
changes that we made to this in this case the
sorted collections .iml file and it's
also used to switch branches among other
things we're not gonna be going into a
lot of detail with the check out you can
look at bib hashes git complete
mastery course if you want to find out
more on some of the more advanced
commands in this case what we're going
to use it for is to basically revert
that change or undo the change so going to
type....
....
....on branch master nothing
commit working trees clean but lets
actually have a look at the file now
so...
and notice that the blank
line that i added has now been
removed
so what's happening is by using that git
check out command the latest version
that was in the git database has
overridden what's in the working
directory so we've got back to the last
current version of the file that
we save previously in the git database
so that is what the check out command
does alright let's do the same thing as we
did before going to edit the file again
this time we're going to add another line
somewhere or add a couple lines just
so we know that it's different
save it this time we're gonna add so....
....
noting this time because we've issued the git add
command it's red changes are ready to be
committed now that's telling us to use
the git reset head command to unstage
to unstage would be to take it out of
the index or that sort of staging
area so let's actually try doing that
so do.....
....
....you can see
we've got some output there that says
unstage changes after reset and the
capital letter m there then the file name
sorted collections .iml let's
check out what the git status command
shows us now and you can see it's taking
us back to the previous state we now
need to issue the git add command if you
did want to ultimately commit the file
and then we could actually go through
now if we wanted to do and do what we did
earlier in this video git check out
....
and that reverts the changes so
that we go back to our file again.....
...you
can see those two black lines no longer
appear and we've got what is the latest
version of the sorted collection IML file
from the git database
alright so that's what we've done
there is gone through undoing actions
in a repository that already existed and
that course meant that they were tracked
files in the repository and git was
monitoring them and you saw that we
change those and then went through various
commands to remove those changes but the
command for unstaging is a little bit
different if we work in a repository
which is fresh and actually doesn't have
any track files lets go and have a look
at how to do that I'm going to clear
so we start again
.....and now let's create a new
test repositories so....
....
....call it rightly
it's telling us that the file isn't
a being tracked
let's add the file so....
....
and it's telling us now because it's a
brand new repository the file hasn't
previously been tracked we got this option
to remove it now the dash dash cached here
indicates that we're working with the
index and the RM dash a the RM space
dash dash cache that we're gonna remove
the file from the index so i can type...
....
....back at the
stage now of saying of git telling
us that there's an untracked file their
test file and then now we can remove the
test folder all together by removing the
file like so and do git status again
and now there's no files and so git is
saying this
we actually got a clean folder and
nothing to add or to be more precise saying
the initial commit alright so at this
point we're actually done so in the next
video we're going to switch over and
start looking at a viewing history in a
git repository so we'll see you in the
next video